Hello again you remarkable ghetto people in this video.
We're going to make a computer.
The computers are going to be used a little later on to allow the player to go up to a spot on a map
to click on them to get a combination for some of the locked doors on the level and to proceed.
So they're gonna provide a really good gameplay element that sort of funnels the player has to get to
a little mini objective when not going to yet.
Why are the computers to the combination generator.
We're just going to have them as a functional thing to plug in next time.
What do we need to make a computer.
Well to build a computer you will need one sprite an area 2D node and a monitor that pops up just like
real life.
That's all the computers.
That's not what computers are but that's what they going to be in this game.
So that's what gonna make we're gonna make a simple little computer scene.
Let's start with a brand new scene and only use 2D.
And when you call this computer.
OK.
Our computer needs to look like something I'm going to use a sprite.
Now I could use a texture rect but texture rect as you can see here is green and inherits from control.
We need to be inherited from a no 2D.
I want to know 2D properties and it's only using a sprite.
So here's a sprite loop.
And let's given natural texture.
So if we open graphics PMG and what you've done in tiles I scroll down here's a big wide screen TV and
he uses tile 5 3 7 right here.
And I'm going to rotate it 90 degrees because our sprites all start facing that direction that feels
like a sensible thing to do something to rotate you by 90.
OK.
Now let's put an area city around the place where to click on this anywhere you have because enough
just like with our doors and our locked doors.
So brand new area study area 2D loop and an air actually needs a collision shape so let's give the collision
shape add in collision shape.
Judy Davis and she is going to be a rectangle.
Now I know that the tiles on this tile sheet were 64 by 64.
This is clearly not 64 and the expert is 64 on the Y.
However extents go from the center to the edge.
So I need to make this an extant size 32 on the Y.
So let's put that in except 32.
Clearly we want a slightly wider area than that because right now the player will have to be sending
in the computer to use it.
Let's give you an extent of think 48.
Yeah looks pretty good.
However right now this is part of the area and this is the area.
Let's move it.
I'm saying my area Judy and I'm going to go to transform and on the X I want to move it by.
Drag it what looks good.
60 64 look like she's 64 looks pretty good.
You have to figure this will be on a desk right.
So play is not going to stand there.
So if you're here that looks pretty.
Yeah I like that.
I use that.
Okay.
So here is my actual area Judy.
We will weigh this up as a signal but we need a script to do it.
And right now there isn't a script.
Finally I want a little canvas layer for the pop up just like before a backup computer.
Brand new node on a canvas layer loop that's canvas modulate.
That's wrong.
I don't want that.
I want a canvas layer canvas layer Vega.
Okay canvas layer and as a child of this I want to put a brand new pop.
So brand new pop up that will come in here and show it right now.
It do anything that will be our computer pop ups that computer pop up.
A brief pause while my cat decides that she wants to join in and she's calling my back Hello caboodle.
Okay back to work.
So we have this kind of pop up which will make in a second.
I do want to Warren's RTD before I forget.
So let's put in a computer script we'll call it computer.
Oh you know what we haven't save this let's save it save this indoors no doors and terrible places make
a brand new folder chemical that computer
save it in there.
And now we put the new script in.
It'll be in the right place.
So that looks good.
And here's a bright new script from here.
It knows the Eric Judy and to node and to connect to don't I.
I want the body entered a physical body and body exited.
Judy I'm going to connect that computer and then back over here.
Body exited I'm at a computer.
OK so those are now waiting for us.
We can save that.
That's looking pretty good.
All right.
Now let's make our computer pop up.
So I want a nice little pop up which will be its own scene.
But for now let's make it in here so I can see it.
I'm going to start with this nice box.
Now we use a mind patch rectangle before when we use one again.
And I was going to put nine patch Rectangle rect.
OK.
So what's a name patch rectangle going to have.
What's going to have a background of a computer.
So let's find a nice background.
We can't do this with metal plates.
Only back backup to as close tiles back up to interface on the graphics interface.
I've got PSG folder here scroll down to metal metal panel Yeah that feels pretty good.
Let's make our computer pop up have a rectangle of a minimum size of six hundred by four each.
I feel like that feels good for 80 not 180.
Yeah.
Pay attention is at a decent size.
That looks pretty good.
But I also want this my patch rectangle to fill it.
So that's in me a computer monitor.
Clearly right now that's not good enough.
In fact you know what I don't like that metal panel much let's have a different metal palaces metal
plate.
OK so back to nine patch and let's give a patch margin I'd say 10 pixels.
Good.
So ten ten ten ten.
OK.
That now looks a lot more like a computer.
However computer monitors have a little screen so let's give them those.
Let's give it a screen.
I'm going to give it a center container OK.
I want to put a little screen in the center here.
So let's give it a send a container underneath this line patch rectangles those a container and I'm
gonna make that full rectangle again and I should probably anchor that.
Let's anchor that to you know full rectangle anchor great.
And I want to give it such a good margin size about 20 pixels.
Yeah those pretty good 2020.
Doing what 20 or minus 20 on this side I want minus 20 on the right and minus 20 at the bottom.
Why minus 20.
Because I've got an anchor full rectangle so that's where it's taking its size from.
OK.
So underneath this center container let's put another nine patch rectangle.
So nine patch rectangle and I won't use one of these glass panels.
I'm going to use just the standard glass panel.
OK.
You'll notice you can't see it.
Let's take a look why.
If I go to wrecked my size is zero.
OK.
That's no good.
I think a minimum size of five 60 on the X to full 40 on the Y why don't know those side sizes.
Trial and error to be honest I practiced this in the preproduction and that's the size that look good
looking good.
Not quite those nine patch margins don't work.
Let's give another 10 pixels in every direction and we should now have something that looks a bit like
a monitor.
We could have a slightly smaller patch about eight.
We haven't noticed that now.
OK.
So that's what it looks like.
So here is the beginnings of our monitor.
Now a few other things you can do.
I'm going to put in a texture rect.
Some are put in the texture act as a child of computer pop up
and I'm going to position this at the bottom right.
And I'm going to give this a green dot we now have a power button.
Now I want to expand it's what fills the entire dot and all the change the size to 20 by 20.
And one more time that rectangle bottom right.
And we now have a power button.
And here is a lovely monitor.
I do feel like we want to move this slightly so I'm gonna give it a little bit.
You know what looks like this even smaller rectangle size so 10 by 10.
And I should move it by hand.
Now it's seconds position from the computer pop up or the cop computer pop up.
How do I not spot that rename my computer
without a capital P computer pop up.
Okay okay that's looking pretty good.
One more thing I want to add to this.
So as a child of 9 patch Rex 2 I want to be above that right.
So I'm going in order.
I'm going to make a brand new label so it's like a label write the word test and you'll notice immediately
we have a problem.
Right we have white on white.
So what I want to do is reuse the theme we've been doing the backups can be the pop up and go to theme
and oh no we haven't saved it.
I've had interface.
There's nothing here.
Let's go back and save it.
Let's go to level 1 and click on the locked door so open that scene openly number pad scene and we'll
go to theme which is already open.
Left click it and we go save where we'd like to save it.
I want to save it in this folder and interface and I'm going to call it theme dot tr.
Yes.
Okay.
So now I can close this scene.
And this one and I can load the theme in here so load interface think two areas and already we could
see a benefit.
So we have the right file.
Click on the theme and order add labels to it.
So go and it theme and class items dot dot dot.
And I'm going to go label and just add that.
OK.
So now if you want to give this a different fault.
More importantly though I want to change the color of this.
And we'll do this on this label.
I'm to custom colors and just change the font color to black.
OK.
Now I want this to be able to take as much space as possible so first I'm going to have to layout and
I'm in a full rectangle.
And let's make sure we're actually anchored to the full rectangles well that's going to margin and I
want 20 pixels from the left and the top negative 20 from the right.
Negative 20 from the bottom.
So our text is now sitting or situated within the glass which is situated within the monitor with little
green light that's in still slightly the wrong place.
You live here.
That's where you live.
OK.
Here is our computer.
We'll save that.
And let's make computer pop up its own scene.
So when a right click on it and save branch as seen it can live in computer it's called Computer pop
up and it is now it's unseen.
So let's just make sure Sona open that scene.
We have a pop up that I can bring up at it and save.
OK.
Now let's put in the basics of the script so to do that I want to add one more signal on area 2D.
I'm going to go to node and I want to be able to click it.
That's going to be an input event.
And I've just realized the problem for input events and connect that to computer.
So now we can do the click thing.
However let's go back to 2D and it's actually gonna be measuring on the area 2d sprite doesn't have
click.
So what I want to do is just move this back on the left some hold shift.
Just drag it over to about there.
So now that will include the computer.
It will also include this bits but I can live with that.
OK I'm going to hide you.
And let's write some basic functionality.
Let's start with our variables.
Have an instance variable of can click which defaults is false.
That's probably we need at this stage isn't it.
So let's now make it work on area input events.
We did this before so if the input dot is mouse button pressed on and we want button left and very big
and can click
then I want to get the computer pop up.
So computer pop up dots pop up
centered
and that's about it.
So when we click on it if we can't click on it it'll show.
So let's put this in here.
So if you enter the area which one change can click equals true.
And if you exit we want to can click equals false and we want to hide the pop up right.
So not just click off of that but if you move out.
Let's hide it.
So we want to pop up dots hide ok.
One more thing we should do before we go any further.
Let's go back to the charity.
Just checked the collision later and let's take a look.
We have we're not actually players.
We're not Tom ups when no pieces were left for.
So you know what I'm going to have to make a brand new layer for it.
That's fine.
And we can only interact with a player.
So it's got a project the project settings and scroll down to land aims to do physics and let's call
it computers.
Right now that's the only thing that exists in this lab.
That's fine.
Let's make sure is ranked with us.
Let's go to level 1 and let's open the play a scene and make sure that we get a collision layer.
Players can interact with Tom apps and pieces and computers.
Let's take a look make sure our area's good just gonna save that that's looking good.
So if you run into him press play.
There we go.
One more thing I do want make sure by the way I've just noticed.
Furniture.
If we get a collision we haven't set these so.
Furniture exists on a tile map and can interact with players and pieces.
OK.
So we want NPC is to be able to be stopped by furniture.
So let's just check that one more time.
That works great.
This door has a ridiculous combination.
And the gods will wander around.
So that is the this video.
So in this video we've gotten started this little computer and next video going to start wiring together.
So great work and I shall see on the next one.